
What brings people to parks? Using social media data to identify drivers of high visitation rates in parks

What is the problem you want to solve?
Why do people visit parks? How do these visitors choose one park over the other? 
Through this project, I intend to identify what amenities (e.g. basketball courts,
walking trails), facilities (e.g. restrooms), and/or general park attributes (e.g.
park size, park accessibility) are leading to higher visitation rates in parks. 

Who is your client and why do they care about this problem? In other words, what 
will your client DO or DECIDE based on your analysis that they wouldn’t have 
otherwise?
For this specific study, I will be collecting social media and park 
amenity/facility data in New York, NY. However, the target client for this project 
could be any agency responsible for park acquisition, park design, park creation 
and/or park maintenance. These agencies could use the conclusions from this study 
in their future park planning efforts to determine where the new park should go, and
what to include in the park design.

What data are you going to use for this? How will you acquire this data?
1. Tweets from Twitter API (for park usage)
Twython python wrapper for accessing standard twitter search and setting up 
twitter stream
2. NYC Parks and Rec park facility database (for available facilities/amenities)
List of facilities possible to include: https://www.nycgovparks.org/facilities
Will inquire with NYC Parks and Rec to obtain flat table of data
3. The Trust for Public Land’s ParkServe® database (for basic park attributes, 
such as park size and # of people living within a 10-minute walk)

In brief, outline your approach to solving this problem (knowing that this might 
change later).
I plan to perform several regression techniques with park usage/visitation rates 
as the dependent variable, with park amenity availability, park facility 
availability and general park attribute as the independent variables. The 
amenities/facilities I use as independent variables will be determined based on a 
literature review of park visitation determinants.

What are your deliverables? Typically, this would include code, along with a paper and/or a slide deck.
1. All relevant scripts/codes
2. Slide deck with introduction, methodology, conclusions and limitations
3. (Possibly) a brief write-up

